Add SME feedback to original PR#25709 (#26442)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced.adoc

available through default {product-title} installation methods.
This section describes some of the configurations that you can do using
techniques that include:

* Passing kernel arguments to the live installer
* Running `coreos-installer` manually from the live system
* Embedding Ignition configs in an ISO

The advanced configuration topics for bare metal {op-system-first}
installations detailed in this section relate to disk partitioning, networking, and using Ignition configs in different ways.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_network_{context}"]
== Using advanced networking options for PXE and ISO installs
Networking for {product-title} nodes uses DHCP by default to gather all
necessary configuration settings. To set up static IP addresses or configure special settings, such as bonding, you can do one of the following:

* Pass special kernel parameters when you boot the live installer.

* Use a MachineConfig to copy networking files to the installed system.

* Configure networking from a live installer shell prompt, then copy those settings to the installed system so that they take effect when the installed system first boots.

> To configure an PXE or iPXE installation, use one of the following options:

Reviewer: To configure *a* PXE or iPXE installation,

* See the "Advanced RHCOS installation reference" tables.
* Use a MachineConfig to copy networking files to the installed system.

To configure an ISO installation, use the following procedure.

.Procedure

. Boot the ISO installer.
. From the live system shell prompt, configure networking for the live
system using available RHEL tools, such as `nmcli` or `nmtui`.

> . Run the `coreos-installer` command to install the system, adding the ``--copy-network` option to copy networking configuration. For example:

Reviewer 2: Extra backtick before `--copy-network`.

auth  bootstrap.ign  master.ign  metadata.json  worker.ign
----

Now you can use the Ignition config files as input to the ISO or PXE bare
metal installation procedures to install {op-system-first} systems.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_retaindisk_{context}"]
=== Retaining existing partitions
For an ISO installation, you can add options to the `coreos-installer` command line
that causes the installer to maintain one or more existing partitions.
For a PXE installation, you can `APPEND` `coreos.inst` options to preserve partitions.

Saved partitions might be partitions from an existing {product-title}
system that has data partitions that you want to keep. Here are a few tips:

> * Keep in mind that if you are saving existing partitions, those partitions will either leave enough space for {op-system}, or they will not and the installation will fail.

Reviewer 2: What about: "If you save existing partitions, and those partitions do not leave enough space for {op-system}, installation will fail without damaging the saved partitions."

* Identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition
label or by number.

.For an ISO installation

This example preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with `data` (`data*`):

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign

>         --save-partlabel ‘data*’ /dev/sda

Author: Changed to back tick here and also below. Is this correct?

```
> # coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
>         --save-partlabel `data*` /dev/sda
```

> `coreos.inst.save_partlabel=`data*``

>         --save-partlabel ‘data*’ /dev/sda

Reviewer 2: No, it should be single quotes.

>         --save-partlabel ‘data*’ /dev/sda

Author: Gotcha, I've changed to single quotes.

>         --save-partlabel ‘data*’ /dev/sda

Author: Docs look like single quotes.

command-line option, you can embed an Ignition config into the ISO
installer image. This allows you to do bare metal installs with the ISO,
without requiring access to an HTTP server. See “Embedding an Ignition
config in the {op-system-first} ISO” for details.

* **Live install Ignition config**: This type must be created manually and should be avoided if possible, as it is not supported by Red Hat. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before and/or after the {op-system} system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be performed once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a MachineConfig.
+
For PXE or ISO boots, you can create the Ignition config
and `APPEND` the `ignition.config.url=` option to identify the location of
the Ignition config. You also need to append `ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal`
or the `ignition.config.url` option will be ignored.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_embedignition_{context}"]
=== Embedding an Ignition config in the {op-system-first} ISO

> To embed an Ignition config named `worker.ign` into an ISO image, for example `rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso`, you must:

Reviewer 2: We're still not converging on this one, so lemme try again:

Using `coreos-installer iso ignition embed` to embed a `worker.ign` is basically not feasible in 4.6.  The user would have to write a "live install Ignition config" that writes out the `worker.ign` as a file and then overrides the `coreos-installer.service` unit to read that file using `--ignition-file`.  This flow is well outside what we want users to do, especially since the doc just explained that live install Ignition configs are unsupported.  This means the `iso ignition embed` flow is not useful in any supported flow in 4.6.  I think there's value in documenting it anyway, since people will still use it, but we'll need to frame the instructions appropriately.

FYI, there's discussion of closing this gap for future releases; see https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/492.

Author: Thanks for sticking with this. I went back and reread old threads from you and Chris. At first blush, my thought is that we should not be documenting something so far from any workflow in 4.6. But I can see the argument that it's better for customers that we at least mention it, since some will try, and then that lets us warn that it's not supported or recommended...and save potential support tickets.

As for practical application in the docs, I'm not sure that this latest revision of the procedure is getting it quite right, and I don't have the experience to test it myself. We're technically past doc freeze, so if there are any edits, please be very specific so I can be sure to get it right. Thanks!

> . Copy the image from the link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/[coreos-installer image mirror] page to a local directory.

Author: This is the latest and greatest, but I don't know whether what follows is accurate. @bgilbert @miabbott

Author: Thanks, @miabbott - I kept the steps fairly simple: download and extract.

auth  bootstrap.ign  master.ign  metadata.json  worker.ign
----

Now you can use the Ignition config files as input to the ISO or PXE bare
metal installation procedures to install {op-system-first} systems.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_retaindisk_{context}"]
=== Retaining existing partitions

> For an ISO installation, you can add options to the `coreos-installer` command line

Reviewer: *command-line

Author: ISG calls for the hyphen only when used as an adjective (e.g., "command-line interface")

* Identify the disk partitions you want to keep either by partition
label or by number.

.For an ISO installation

This example preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with `data` (`data*`):

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partlabel 'data*' /dev/sda
----

The following example illustrates running the `coreos-installer` in a way that preserves
the sixth (6) partition on the disk:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign \
        --save-partindex 6 /dev/sda
----

This example preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
# coreos-installer install --ignition-url http://10.0.2.2:8080/user.ign
        --save-partindex 5- /dev/sda
----

In the previous examples where partition saving is used, `coreos-installer` recreates the partition immediately.

.For a PXE installation

This `APPEND` option preserves any partition in which the partition label begins with 'data' ('data*'):

[source,terminal]
----

> coreos.inst.save_partlabel='data*'

Reviewer 2: For the `save_partlabel` kernel argument, there are no quotes; this should just be:

```
coreos.inst.save_partlabel=data*
```

----

This `APPEND` option preserves partitions 5 and higher:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=5-
----

This `APPEND` option preserves partition 6:

[source,terminal]
----
coreos.inst.save_partindex=6
----

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_ignition_{context}"]
== Identifying Ignition configs
When doing an {op-system} bare metal installation, there are two types of Ignition configs that you can provide, with different reasons for providing each one:

* **Permanent install Ignition config**: Every bare metal {op-system} installation
needs to pass one of the Ignition config files generated by `openshift-installer`,
such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, to carry out the
installation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
It is not recommended to modify these files.
====
+
For PXE installations, you pass the Ignition configs on the `APPEND` line using the

> `coreos.inst.ignition_url=` option. For ISO installs, after the ISO boots to

Reviewer 2: "For ISO installations,"

the shell prompt, you identify the Ignition config on the `coreos-installer`
command line with the `--ignition-url=` option.
+

> For ISO installations, instead of passing the location of an Ignition config using a kernel or

Reviewer 2: For the usual reasons, let's drop this paragraph.

command-line option, you can embed an Ignition config into the ISO installer image. This allows you to do bare metal installs with the ISO, but without requiring access to an HTTP server. See “Embedding an Ignition config in the {op-system-first} ISO” for details.

* **Live install Ignition config**: This type must be created manually and should be avoided if possible, as it is not supported by Red Hat. With this method, the Ignition config passes to the live install medium, runs immediately upon booting, and performs setup tasks before and/or after the {op-system} system installs to disk. This method should only be used for performing tasks that must be performed once and not applied again later, such as with advanced partitioning that cannot be done using a MachineConfig.
+
For PXE or ISO boots, you can create the Ignition config
and `APPEND` the `ignition.config.url=` option to identify the location of
the Ignition config. You also need to append `ignition.firstboot ignition.platform.id=metal`
or the `ignition.config.url` option will be ignored.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_embedignition_{context}"]
=== Embedding an Ignition config in the {op-system} ISO

> You can embed an Ignition config at the shell prompt, and then identify it on the `coreos-installer` command line.

Reviewer: *command-line

> You can embed an Ignition config at the shell prompt, and then identify it on the `coreos-installer` command line.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what "then identify it on the `coreos-installer` command line" means.

```suggestion
You can embed a live install Ignition config directly in an {op-system} ISO image. When
the ISO image is booted, the embedded config will be applied automatically.
```

Author: Resolved. (FWIW, the previous text came from a line in Chris's doc: "For ISO installs, after the ISO boots to the shell prompt, you identify the Ignition config on the coreos-installer command line with the --ignition-url= option.")

Reviewer 2: That's not describing the embedding case, though, and also it gives specifics on how to perform the suggested operation.

Text looks good in the current draft.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the following image mirror page: https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/.

> . Extract the installer to a local directory.

Reviewer 2: There's nothing to extract; it's an executable binary.  Delete.

Reviewer 2: Looks like this change was missed.

Author: Removed "Extract..." line.

. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and copy them into an accessible directory, such as `/mnt`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# cp rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso bootstrap.ign /mnt/
# chmod 644 /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----

> . Run the following command to to embed the Ignition config into the ISO:

Reviewer: Remove extra "to"
Run the following command to embed the Ignition config into the ISO:

+
[source,terminal]
----

> # podman run -it -v /mnt:/mnt:z coreos-installer \
>      iso ignition embed --force -i /mnt/bootstrap.ign /mnt/rhcos.test.iso

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition embed -i /mnt/bootstrap.ign \
     /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
```

----
+

> You can now use that ISO to install {op-system} with the included Ignition config, but
> without needing to pull the Ignition config from an HTTP server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now use that ISO to install {op-system} using the specified live install
Ignition config.
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Using `coreos-installer iso ignition embed` to embed a file generated by `openshift-installer`, such as `bootstrap.ign`, `master.ign` and `worker.ign`, is unsupported and not recommended.
====
+
. To show the contents of the embedded Ignition config and direct it into a file, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> # podman run -it -v /mnt:/mnt:z coreos-installer \
>     iso ignition show /mnt/rhcos.test.iso > mybootstrap.ign

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition show /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso > mybootstrap.ign
```

----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# diff -s bootstrap.ign mybootstrap.ign
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Files bootstrap.ign and mybootstrap.ign are identical
----

. To remove the Ignition config and return the ISO to its pristine state so
you can reuse it, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> # podman run -it -v /mnt:/mnt:z coreos-installer \
>     iso ignition remove /mnt/rhcos.test.iso

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# ./coreos-installer iso ignition remove /mnt/rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
```
